Giovanni Coppola, Greg Leitkowski, Ezequiel Salas
CSCI-452


Giovanni Coppola’s Experience:
Overall, this was a very eye opening experience and one that I can say I did not experience before. I think I had a lot of difficulty finding time to work on this project in tandem with other projects. It made communication a little difficult, but it thankfully didn’t matter much as the three of our projects did not affect each other from working on theirs. We all could work separately on it. I think the biggest issue was getting myself in a flow that I felt comfortable in. I found myself restarting this project multiple times over the course of the 7 weeks we had. Online documentation did not help me that much since it was entirely dependent on what type of device the file system was being stored on. Whether that be ram disk or USB. But, I did realize in hindsight that I was reading some of the documentation wrong. I wrapped my head around this problem the wrong way, and couldn’t get out of that headspace for a while. I wish that I would have drawn more diagrams and laid out how the components would have interacted with each other more. There is a lot that I would change now, and I might in the future, but again, this is in hindsight.


Greg Leitkowski’s Experience
At the start of the group work, we had a good plan for what we would do as a team where Gino would make a file system and Ezequiel and I would make drivers for devices and integrate functionality with the file system. For example, writing files onto the HDD or reading files to the printer. Unfortunately, while we were able to get each of our modules working in the same OS, we weren’t able to integrate their functionality fully. My issues encountered during this project can be summed with relearning C and understanding documentation. While there was ample documentation, it was sometimes difficult to understand it all or to keep track of what information was useful. For example, I wasn’t able to find information on the IDENTIFY_DEVICE command even though it was obvious it was there after it was pointed out to me by Professor Carithers. Additionally, it was difficult to wrap my head around the memory mapping of data structures for data passing to and from the device. Much of my time was spent figuring out which interrupt bits had to be set and how structure fields had to be initialized. While I planned to get read and write working, I only got the ID command working. However, I feel that now that I have 1 command working, other commands would be more straightforward with my better understanding of how the commands work. If I had another week or was able to start dedicated work on the project earlier, I think I would have reached my goal of reading and writing data to the drive. Overall, I valued the experience of this class. I wanted to understand more about how device drivers interact with the OS and I succeeded in that. I also brushed up on my knowledge of C, which is always helpful. It was challenging but rewarding to finally get a response back from the device. 


Ezequiel Salas’ Experience
At the start when we decided what we were working on we really hoped that we could have our modules working together since Gino was working on a file system and Greg was working on storage devices, the idea was that it would somehow work together with a file going from module to module but things happened and we couldn’t do it. It was a very interesting experience dealing with such an ancient printer. More so dealing with the documentation of the printer which was highly detailed but it was designed for a BASIC computer or something that could directly communicate with the port via ASCII characters. It was a lot of experimenting with what I had access to since any resources for parallel ports basically said just output some data to a port and it will work. The main issue I found out at the end was timing, most of the issues I had was timing related since the parallel port always had some type of data being sent and received so making sure the correct data is sent/received at the right time determined if the printer actually received it or not. It was a very specific case that the data sent and the strobe signal had to be almost in sync by a few milliseconds, with data being sent first, and then waiting for an acknowledgement signal to continue sending data. 


Outside of the actual code, it was a fun experience overall learning and experimenting with drivers. I really wished we as a group discussed better ways to implement things together but we worked well as a group helping each other whenever we can.